---
layout: post
title: March 10th - Openshift 3 and the next generation of PaaS
author: jdavis
nid: 219
created: 1456692658
---
Clayton Coleman is architect and engineer on cloud orchestration and
containers at Red Hat, in charge of both technical direction for
Kubernetes and OpenShift (Red Hat's platform as a service built on top
of Kubernetes) as well as the broader container and container content
efforts at Red Hat.  Clayton is one of the top contributors to both
Kubernetes and OpenShift and has been involved in many projects in the
container, platform-as-a-service, and ci/cd ecosystem over the last
four years.  He enjoys sleeping, but rarely has time to do it anymore.

Abstract:

Containers, Microservices, Continuous Integration and Deployment, and
DevOps are the buzzwords of the day. But how do they actually help
make it easier to build and run software? How do
container-as-a-service systems like Kubernetes, Mesos, or Docker Swarm
change how software is deployed?

In this talk I'll cover how all of
these topics come together, how they can benefit developers and
operators, and how we've built a platform (OpenShift) that supports,
exposes, and safeguards that flexibility and power for devs AND ops.
I'll do an overview of the features and patterns in OpenShift that
make it easy to build and deploy applications, with a quick demo of
how it puts Docker containers to work in a cluster for local and
remote development.

Since OpenShift is built on top of Kubernetes,
I'll also describe how Kubernetes was built to solve Google-scale
problems and how even the humblest local web application can benefit
from those patterns.
