---
layout: post
title: What is an Un-Meeting?
author: bgerard
nid: 191
created: 1422381660
---
Think of an unconference, but shrunk to fit into our regular meeting slot.

Here's how this is going to work.

First, we want you to give us a list of topics.  Go to the link listed at the bottom of
the meeting announcement and put in a topic or two that you want to hear about and/or want
to contribute to a discussion about.  It's true that the usual "Unconference Way" to do
this is on-site, on the day of the event, but given the comparatively tight timeline of a
monthly TriLUG meeting, that's not really a viable option.  So we're looking to the group
to help get the topic list populated ahead of time.

Next, you can either mark the "I can tell you about this" or "I want to know more about
this" box - or both, if you like.

Optionally, if you would like to be the one driving the discussion (more on this below),
put your name in the slot to do so.  First come, first serve on driving, but feel free to
talk to whoever signs up to drive about taking over if you *really* wanted to do it
yourself.

Lastly, check back over the weeks leading up to the meeting and check the appropriate
boxes on any other topics that look interesting to you.

The topics we're looking for should be things that would work well as 10-15 minute
discussions.  We are ideally trying to get a set of four or five that will cumulatively
fill an hour or so. 

We will select the set of topics on the night of the meeting, taking into account how many
people say they know about a topic, how many are interested in it, and whether anyone has 
signed up to drive.

When it is time for one of the selected topics to come up, the driver will come up to the 
front of the room and plug in to the projector.  If they have something about the topic
that they'd like to share, they can show, demonstrate, or talk about what they know.  Then
we'll open the floor to the rest of the group.  This is when we'll expect the folks who 
"can tell" us about the topic to do so.  The driver will take directions and suggestions
from the audience and demonstrate those features, tips, and so on.  If there's a topic
with a lot of interest but no driver, we'll have a designated Steering Committee member
drive for that particular subject (yes, a "designated driver" :). 

Think of the process in a similar vein to Jack's Vim talk in January, 2015.  He had a lot 
of good knowledge to share, but he also acted as the mediator and hands-on-the-keyboard
for others in the group when they shared their tips.  We saw a lot of collaboration that
evening, and a number of people have mentioned that they found that useful and enjoyable.
